# The Scribus Community Newsletter, December 2015

## Scribus 1.4.6 released

TODO: will only be published in November if 1.4.6 is already out before the release of the newsletter (ale)

The newest bug fixing release of the Scribus stable branch has been released. The most relevant changes are:

- Improvement in the translations.
- Apply Transifex sourced translations.
- Text effects only retain on first line when you reopen a document.
- Improve the color management consistency between PostScript and PDF CMYK output.
- Better color management for print preview when GhostScript >= 9.00 is available.
- Retain "View rulers" setting across session.
- Fix drag and drop issue on main window on Windows.
- Retain the transparency of layers for object placed in template when exporting in PDF.
- Extend the maximum display DPI to 500 to allow for current 4k, 5k, and future screens.
- Apply patch to use `CMAKE_INSTALL_DATAROOTDIR`.
- Avoid the creation of an `XObject` for every group on every page when exporting to PDF.
- Fix small scaling error when importing SVGs with viewbow attribute.
- Correctly render the kerning between non-CJK and CJK letters.
- Refresh the content when deleting a linked text frame.
- Fix flipping horizontal/vertical not moving the items back if multiple are selected.

## Layers and Master Pages

Many people have a hate love relationship with Scribus' Master pages: on the one side they have the repoutation of being sligtly -- ehm ehm -- subpar compared to what other software propose, on the other side since the master pages work in a straigt forward way they are much easier to use.

Basically, they are a background you can put behind your pages, with a few goodies like the page numbers and guides.  
Even if the plan is to avoid to bloat the Master Pages, an important new feature can be found in 1.5.0: it is now possible to use layers to render items that are on the master page on top of items on the page, that would otherwise cover them.

The most common use case is of course avoiding that a picture hides the page number or the title in the headers.

(And that's not all: in the next issue we will see how to get the the page numbers to stick out even on pages whrere they happen to fall on a bacground of the same color)

## Testimonials

## Requests for participation

## About this newsletter

This is a Scribus newsletter published by contributors from the Scribus community.
Our goal is to produce one issue per month presenting different aspects of the life in the Scribus community.

TODO: complete the contributors list  
The  December issue has been written by Ale and Kunda.  

You can contribute through our Github repository <https://github.com/aoloe/scribus-newsletter> or by getting in touch with us in any way you see fit ([forum](http://forums.scribus.net), [IRC](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=scribus), [mailing list](http://lists.scribus.net), [twitter](https://twitter.com/scribus), email, ...)

Currently we are looking for more redactors, translators, and a graphic designer who proposes a nice HTML style for this newsletter.  
We would also like to see designers create a PDF version of each issue.

You can also ask us to cover specific topics, by commenting on the [ticket for the next issue](https://github.com/aoloe/scribus-newsletter/issues/21)).

This newsletter is published under a Creative Common license:  
CC-BY-SA, the Scribus Community Newsletter (<http://impagina.org/newsletter>)
